
------------
StirMark 3.1
------------

Fabien A. P. Petitcolas and Markus G. Kuhn
University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory

Each source file contains its own copyright information. The general
agreement is as follows:


Copyright (c) 1997, 1999 by Fabien A. P. Petitcolas and Markus G. Kuhn
                            University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any non-commercial purpose and without fee is hereby
granted (GPL), provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty. The authors shall not be held
liable in any event for incidental or consequential damages in
connection with, or arising out of, the furnishing, performance, or
use of this program.

If you use StirMark for your research, please cite:

    Fabien A. P. Petitcolas, Ross J. Anderson, Markus G. Kuhn. Attacks
    on copyright marking systems, in David Aucsmith (Ed), Information
    Hiding, Second International Workshop, IH'98, Portland, Oregon,
    USA, April 15--17, 1998, Proceedings, LNCS 1525, Springer-Verlag,
    ISBN 3-540-65386-4, pp. 219--239.

    <http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~fapp2/papers/ih98-attacks/>

and 

    Fabien A. P. Petitcolas and Ross J. Anderson, Evaluation of 
    copyright marking systems. To be presented at IEEE Multimedia
    Systems (ICMCS'99), 7--11 June 1999, Florence, Italy. 

We are required to state that "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is
the Copyright property of CompuServe Incorporated. GIF(sm) is a
Service Mark property of CompuServe Incorporated."

---

Part of this software uses code by Neil Dodgson for another project.
Neil allowed us to use his code under GPL.

---

The GPL can be found at:

   <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>

---

In addition, the full StirMark uses freely redistribuable code but
which have the following copyright policies:



------------
JPEG Library
------------

The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or
implied, with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy,
merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose.  This software
is provided "AS IS", and you, its user, assume the entire risk as to
its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (c) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.  All Rights
Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject
to these conditions:

(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed,
then this README file must be included, with this copyright and
no-warranty notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes
to the original files must be clearly indicated in accompanying
documentation.

(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the
work of the Independent JPEG Group".

(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user
accepts full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the
authors accept NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the
IJG code, not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work,
you ought to acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or
company name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or
products derived from it.  This software may be referred to only as
"the Independent JPEG Group's software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the
basis of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability
claims are assumed by the product vendor.

ansi2knr.c is included in this distribution by permission of L. Peter
Deutsch, sole proprietor of its copyright holder, Aladdin Enterprises
of Menlo Park, CA.  ansi2knr.c is NOT covered by the above copyright
and conditions, but instead by the usual distribution terms of the
Free Software Foundation; principally, that you must include source
code if you redistribute it.  (See the file ansi2knr.c for full
details.)  However, since ansi2knr.c is not needed as part of any
program generated from the IJG code, this does not limit you more than
the foregoing paragraphs do.

The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU
Autoconf. It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is
freely distributable. The same holds for its supporting scripts
(config.guess, config.sub, ltconfig, ltmain.sh).  Another support
script, install-sh, is copyright by M.I.T. but is also freely
distributable.

It appears that the arithmetic coding option of the JPEG spec is
covered by patents owned by IBM, AT&T, and Mitsubishi.  Hence
arithmetic coding cannot legally be used without obtaining one or more
licenses.  For this reason, support for arithmetic coding has been
removed from the free JPEG software.  (Since arithmetic coding
provides only a marginal gain over the unpatented Huffman mode, it is
unlikely that very many implementations will support it.)  So far as
we are aware, there are no patent restrictions on the remaining code.

The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF
files. To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading
support has been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been
simplified to produce "uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not
use the LZW algorithm; the resulting GIF files are larger than usual,
but are readable by all standard GIF decoders.

We are required to state that "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is
the Copyright property of CompuServe Incorporated. GIF(sm) is a
Service Mark property of CompuServe Incorporated."



---------------------------
Laplacian Removal Operation
---------------------------

Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 by Richard Barnett, University of Essex

The Laplacian Removal Operation, which has been released under GPL by
its author, uses code from SIUE, which has the following Copyright
statement:

Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 SIUE - by Scott E Umbaugh.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any non-commercial purpose and without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies
and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear
in supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty. The developers and SIUE shall not
be held liable in any event for incidental or consequential damages in
connection with, or arising out of, the furnishing, performance, or
use of this program.


---------------------
Quantisation function
---------------------

The quantisation code is from the PBM Plus library:

Copyright (c) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.


$Header: /StirMark/Copyright.txt 4     7/04/99 11:49 Fapp2 $